Lake Demos from a Jupyter notebook in Visual Studio Code (#151)
Teradata/quickstarts: modules/ROOT/pages/vantagecloud-lake-demos-visual-studio-code.adoc

== Overview
Visual Studio Code is a popular open-source code editor compatible with Windows, MacOs, and Linux. Developers use this Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for coding, debugging, building, and deploying applications. In this quickstart guide, we launch VantageCloud Lake Jupyter notebook demos within Visual Studio Code. 

image::vscode.png[vscode.png,align="center", width=80%]

== Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the following prerequisites in place:

* https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/[Docker Desktop] installed
* https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git[Git] installed
** Required to download git repo from https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos.git
* https://code.visualstudio.com/download[Visual Studio Code] installed
* A Teradata VantageCloud Lake account with organization URL and login details from the Teradata welcome letter

== Clone VantageCloud Lake Demo repository 
Begin by cloning the GitHub repository and navigating to the project directory:

> ----

Reviewer: If you add a snippet type, Asciidoctor may highlight it nicer

```suggestion
[source, bash]
----
```

git clone https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos.git
cd lake-demos
----
== Mount Docker files 

> To launch Teradata VantageCloud Lake demos, we need the https://hub.docker.com/r/teradata/jupyterlab-extensions[Jupyter extension for Docker]. This extension bundles Teradata SQL kernel, Teradata Python, R libraries, drivers and Teradata extensions for seamless interaction with Teradata databases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To launch Teradata VantageCloud Lake demos, we need the https://hub.docker.com/r/teradata/jupyterlab-extensions[Teradata Jupyter Extensions for Docker]. These extensions provide the SQL ipython kernel, utilities to manage connections to Teradata, and the database object explorer to make you productive while interacting with the Teradata database.  
```

----
docker pull teradata/jupyterlab-extensions
----

> Next, start a container and bind it to the existing lake-demos directory. Replace */path/to/your/directory* with your actual directory:

Reviewer: The user is already in the right directory so they can use `PWD` to reference it. It's O/S dependent so please check this comment on how to implement it: https://github.com/Teradata/quickstarts/pull/150/files#r1448885132

image::terminal.png[terminal.png,align="center"]

== Visual Studio Code Configuration
Open `lake-demos` project directory in Visual Studio Code. The repository contains the following project tree: 

LAKE_DEMOS

* https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/tree/main/UseCases[UseCases]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/0_Demo_Environment_Setup.ipynb[0_Demo_Environment_Setup.ipynb]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/1_Load_Base_Demo_Data.ipynb[1_Load_Base_Demo_Data.ipynb]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/Data_Engineering_Exploration.ipynb[Data_Engineering_Exploration.ipynb]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/Data_Science_OAF.ipynb[Data_Science_OAF.ipynb]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/Demo_Admin.ipynb[Demo_Admin.ipynb]
* https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/vars.json[vars.json file]

Navigate to the *vars.json* file and include the following environment variables:

----
   "environment":{"host":"XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX", 
                   "UES_URI":"", 
                   "bucket":"", 
                   "access_key":"", 

>                    "secret":""},    

Reviewer: Just making a note, this will change once Daniel shares the coordinates of the newly created public bucket and Kevin validates the notebooks against the new bucket.

----
http://localhost:8888
----
image::server.url.png[server.url.png,align="center"]

Enter the token found in your terminal when mounting files to the Docker container and press Enter.

image::server.password.png[server.password.png,align="center"]

Change Server Display Name(Leave Blank To Use URL)

image::server.display.name.png[server.display.name.png,align="center"]

You now have access to all the Teradata Vantage extension kernels. Select Python 3(ipykernel) from the running Jupyter server.

image::python.kernel.png[python.kernel.png,align="center"]

You are now ready to execute all cells in *0_Demo_Environment_Setup.ipynb* to setup your environment, followed by *1_Demo_Setup_Base_Data.ipynb* to load the base data required for demo.

image::demoenvsetup.png[demoenvsetup.png,align="center", width=70%]

== Modify path to vars.json in UseCases directory

In the UseCases directory, all .ipynb files use the path ../../vars.json to load the variables from the JSON file when working from Jupyterlab. To work directly from Visual Studio Code, update the code in each .ipynb to point to vars.json.

----
# load vars json
with open('../../vars.json', 'r') as f:

>     session_vars = json.load(f)

Reviewer: Let's keep it for now, but let's dive deeper in our 1:1 and see if this can be improved with VS Code configuration.
